# rgb
We&#39;re going to explore a website that you run right on your desktop today. Use a text document to answer the questions.

1.  Open the index.html file inside of the rgb folder. 

2.  Play the game for a few minutes, get to know it, change the difficulty. 

a.	How would you expand the game? What options or settings could you add? 
•	You could add a timer to rush their decision-making
•	You could go insane mode and have them pick the exact opposite color of the RGB numbers displayed


3.  Using this documentation https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction to guide you: 

a.	What is the DOM?
•	It is the document object model. It turns each part of the page so that machines can “read” and manipulate these parts – their placement, their formatting, content, etc.

b.	When is the DOM different than HTML?
•	The DOM is always different from HTML. It takes HTML (which is a document) and turns that document into a series of objects that can be manipulated.
•	It is a machine readable structural representation of a document (HTML, XML)

c.	What is the state of the DOM when you first load the page?
•	The DOM is loaded automatically when the webpage is loaded, just like the HTML, CSS, and if present, JavaScript.

d.	What is the state of the DOM if you turn off JavaScript and refresh the page? 
•	It is unchanged. It is separate from JS.

4.  Now let's explore the code. Use the inspector to investigate the HTML, CSS and Javascript. 

a.	Which parts of UI are being generated by the HTML file? The CSS? The JavaScript? 
•	The HTML is providing the structural containers – the divs
•	CSS is providing the formatting – The type style and size, the size and behavior of buttons, the formatting of the squares, the placement of text on the page.
•	The JS is detecting a user’s action on the page and sending back information to be displayed. It is also going to an outside site via API and pulling in the RGB color information. 

b.	What happens inside the CSS file when you click on various elements in the page? 
•	Based on certain actions, there may be a style class the modifies the color or format.

i.	What elements does the CSS file change? 
o	Changes color of buttons (easy, hard), formats the score, formats the text, transitions and timings when the squares are reset or created intitially. Lots more.

c.	What happens inside the HTML file when you click on various elements in the page? 
•	It is providing the structure so the CSS formats can pretty it up and the JS can inject the interactive parts. The HTML file is not changing, it’s providing the physical layout of the html document.

    d.  Use breakpoints in the JavaScript to walk through what happens when you click on various elements on the page. 

i.	What happens when you click on a color block?
o	I tried at line 25 and no breakpoint stop. On line 76 I got a break. I clicked on a button and the code paused and the color of the squares were fixed. I had evidently clicked a correct color square.

ii.	What happens when you click on the winning color block? 
o	Once I unpaused, the program changes all the squares to the correct color and puts the name of the color in the Title.

iii.	What happens when you click "Play again"? 
o	It resets – using an event listener to detect the button being clicked.

iv.	What HTML and CSS elements can JavaScript change? 
o	I don’t see these as the elements being changed…JS changes the values of the elements, not the elements themselves. In this program, the JS is changing color values, changing text values, computing and changing numerical values for the score. 

v.	How does score keeping work? 
o	If you select a wrong square, -1 point. A correct square, +5 points.

vi.	Why does it persist through closing the page? 
o	It is stored locally, so when you open up the game it refreshes with the last score and you go from there.

        vii.  Using this documentation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage change the JavaScript file to use session storage instead of local storage. 

vii.	What's different about the way the score is kept now? 
o	When you close the browser window the score is wiped and always begins at zero when you initially load the page.

viii.	When you win what happens when the title changes? 
o	It changes to the name of the RGB color that was the correct selection.

ix.	What does Asynchronous mean in the context of JavaScript? \
o	Work does not have to happen in real time. Something can start, and then later another part of the process can start later… email v phone calls.

x.	What is the fetch function inside of updateColorName? 
o	It is using the color api and getting the name of the RGB color. It “fetches” the color.

xi.	What does it do? 
o	Please see answer above. It answers this question, too.

xii.	What's an alternative to using fetch? 
o	Axios

xiii.	Why use one over the other? 
o	Axios may be easier to use and have more options at hand. However, Fetch is always present on any modern browser and is pretty much bound to work…

5.  Add comments to the JavaScript code explaining what you think each function does. 

6.  As you went through this process which of the 3E's did you draw from most? How?

    a.  Curiosity, Deal with Uncertainty, Observation Skills, persistence!

7.  Push your changes to Git.

Other Resources: 

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage

- https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript

